[5.0]docs(common): document support fot net 8 and drop net 3.x and 5 support (#1745)
telerik/blazor-docs: getting-started/web-app.md

---
title: Web App (Tutorial)
page_title: First Steps with UI for Blazor in Web App 
description: Make your first steps with Telerik UI for Blazor and build a Web App that runs the UI for Blazor components.
slug: getting-started/web-app
tags: get,started,first,steps,web,app,template
published: true
position: 4
---

# First Steps with UI for Blazor in Web App

> This article explains how to get the Telerik UI for Blazor components in your <a href = "https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/project-structure?view=aspnetcore-8.0#blazor-web-app" target="_blank">**Blazor Web App** Blazor</a> project and start using them quickly. You will create a new application from scratch, learn how to add the UI for Blazor components to a project, and finally, add a UI component to a view.

Reviewer: .NET 8 should be present somewhere in the first paragraph, so that it's immediately clear what the article is about.

Consider also adding .NET 8 to the page_title and description.

```suggestion
This article explains how to use the Telerik UI for Blazor components in a <a href = "https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/project-structure?view=aspnetcore-8.0#blazor-web-app" target="_blank">.NET 8 Blazor Web App</a> project template. You will create a new application from scratch, learn how to add the UI for Blazor components to a project, and finally, add a UI component to a view.
```

> This article explains how to get the Telerik UI for Blazor components in your <a href = "https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/project-structure?view=aspnetcore-8.0#blazor-web-app" target="_blank">**Blazor Web App** Blazor</a> project and start using them quickly. You will create a new application from scratch, learn how to add the UI for Blazor components to a project, and finally, add a UI component to a view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This article explains how to get the Telerik UI for Blazor components into your <a href = "https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/project-structure?view=aspnetcore-8.0#blazor-web-app" target="_blank">**Blazor Web App**</a> project and start using them quickly. You will create a new application from scratch, learn how to add the UI for Blazor components to a project, and finally, add a UI component to a view.
```

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/get-started.md#prerequisites-download)

## Step 1: Create a New Project

1. Open Visual Studio and select **Create a new project**.

1. Select the [**Blazor Web App**](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/project-structure?view=aspnetcore-8.0#blazor-web-app) project type, enter a name for your project, and then click **Next**.

1. Select the .NET 8 framework, the desired [interactive render mode](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/components/render-modes?view=aspnetcore-8.0#render-modes) and interactivity location (per page or global).

1. Click **Create**.

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/get-started.md#add-nuget-feed)

## Step 3: Install the Telerik UI for Blazor Components

> 1. Right-click  the Blazor Server project in the solution and select **Manage NuGet Packages**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Right-click the Blazor Server project in the solution and select **Manage NuGet Packages**.
```

1. Install the Telerik Blazor NuGet package:

>   1. Select the `telerik.com` **Package source** that you [added earlier](#step-2-add-the-telerik-nuget-feed-to-visual-studio). As this is a private NuGet feed, you must authenticate with your [Telerik account](https://www.telerik.com/account/) user name and password.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   1. Select the `telerik.com` **Package source** that you [added earlier](#step-2-add-the-telerik-nuget-feed-to-visual-studio). As this is a private NuGet feed, you must authenticate with your [Telerik account](https://www.telerik.com/account/) username and password.
```

>   1. Select the **Browse** tab, find the NuGet package, and click **Install**. Commercial license holders should install `Telerik.UI.for.Blazor`. Trial users should install `Telerik.UI.for.Blazor.Trial`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   1. Select the **Browse** tab, find the NuGet package, and click **Install**. Commercial license holders must install `Telerik.UI.for.Blazor`. Trial users must install `Telerik.UI.for.Blazor.Trial`.
```

## Step 4: Enable the Blazor UI Components

> To enable the Telerik UI for Blazor components, you must add several client-side dependencies to the application:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable the Telerik UI for Blazor components, you must add several client-side dependencies to the application, include the `@using` statements, add the `TelerikRootComponent` component, and then register the Telerik Blazor service.
```

### 4.1. Add the Telerik UI for Blazor Client Assets

1\. Add the `telerik-blazor.js` file to your `App.razor` file as a [static asset]({%slug getting-started/what-you-need%}#using-static-assets) or from a [CDN]({%slug getting-started/what-you-need%}#using-cdn).

**HTML**

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/js-interop-file.md#js-interop-file-snippet)

2\. To select the appearance and color scheme for the Telerik Blazor components, add the [theme stylesheet]({%slug general-information/themes%}) in your `App.razor` file. Reference it as a [static asset]({%slug general-information/themes%}#static-assets) or from a [CDN]({%slug general-information/themes%}#cdn).

> 3\. (optional - applicable if you are using static assets) To enable the use of static assets in your project, add the `app.UseStaticFiles();` line to the `Program.cs` of your Blazor Server project (by default, this line is already present).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3\. (Optional) To enable the use of static assets in your project, add the `app.UseStaticFiles();` line to the `Program.cs` of your Blazor Server project (by default, this line is already present). This step is required only if your application uses static assets.
```

**C#**
@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/js-interop-file.md#enable-static-assets-snippet)

###  4.2. Include @using Statements

> In the `~/_Imports.razor` file, add the `@using` directives below. This configures the project to recognize the Telerik components in all files. You can register one or both icon namespaces, depending on the [icon type you will be using]({%slug general-information/font-icons%}).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the `~/_Imports.razor` file, add the `@using` directives below. This configures the project to recognize the Telerik components in all files. You can register one or both icon namespaces, depending on the [icon type you use]({%slug general-information/font-icons%}).
```

**_Imports.razor**
    
    @using Telerik.Blazor
    @using Telerik.Blazor.Components
    @using Telerik.FontIcons
    @using Telerik.SvgIcons

> ###  4.3. Add the TelerikRootComponent

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
###  4.3. Add the Telerik Root Component
```

Author: This is the name of the component and we reference it like so in the entire documentation.

> Add a `TelerikRootComponent` component as a top-level component in the app and make sure it wraps all content.  Add the component in the preferred layout file - could be the `MainLayout.razor` or a custom layout file. The important part is to ensure that the layout component where the `TelerikRootComponent` is defined has interactive mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a `TelerikRootComponent` component as a top-level component in the app and make sure it wraps all content. Add the component in the preferred layout file - could be the `MainLayout.razor` or a custom layout file. The important part is to ensure that the layout component where the `TelerikRootComponent` is defined has interactive mode.
```

> Add a `TelerikRootComponent` component as a top-level component in the app and make sure it wraps all content.  Add the component in the preferred layout file - could be the `MainLayout.razor` or a custom layout file. The important part is to ensure that the layout component where the `TelerikRootComponent` is defined has interactive mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add a `TelerikRootComponent` component as a top-level component in the app and make sure it wraps all content. Add the component in the preferred layout file, for example, `MainLayout.razor` or a custom layout file. Ensure that the layout component where the `TelerikRootComponent` is defined has interactive mode.
```

> .NET 8.0 introduces [new render modes for the Blazor components](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/components/render-modes?view=aspnetcore-8.0). The `TelerikRootComponent` must be placed in a layout page (e.g. `MainLayout.razor`) with enabled interactive mode. At the time of writing, the default render mode is `Static` and not interactive, so you need to make this change explicitly in your app.

Reviewer: This paragraph repeats the last sentence from the previous one. Consider refactoring or merging.

> .NET 8.0 introduces [new render modes for the Blazor components](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/components/render-modes?view=aspnetcore-8.0). The `TelerikRootComponent` must be placed in a layout page (e.g. `MainLayout.razor`) with enabled interactive mode. At the time of writing, the default render mode is `Static` and not interactive, so you need to make this change explicitly in your app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>.NET 8.0 introduces [new render modes for the Blazor components](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/components/render-modes?view=aspnetcore-8.0). The `TelerikRootComponent` must be placed in a layout page with enabled interactive mode, for example, `MainLayout.razor`. At the time of writing, the default render mode is static and not interactive, so you need to make this change explicitly in your app.
```

> Here are two possible options to proceed:

Reviewer 2: Configuring the render mode looks like another distinct step. As such, it must be presented as another step.
```suggestion
### 4.4. Enable Interactive Mode

The render mode of the layout page where you add the `TelerikRootComponent` must be interactive. You can configure it in two ways:
```

Reviewer 2: It could be explained more precisely. In this case, my suggestion is to build step-by-step instructions for 4.3 and then nest the **Enable Interactive Mode** steps under the corresponding step.

Author: The issue here is that I'm listing alternative approaches and not consecutive steps. This is why, I've listed them as bullets.

Reviewer 2: In this case, something like this could be suitable.
```suggestion
### 4.3. Add the TelerikRootComponent
 
Add a `TelerikRootComponent` component as a top-level component in the app and make sure it wraps all content. The `TelerikRootComponent` must be placed on a layout page with enabled interactive mode, for example, `MainLayout.razor` or a custom layout file.
 
How you add the `TelerikRootComponent` to the app depends on which of the following approaches for configuring the render mode you chose:
* [Configure the Render Mode of the Entire App](#configure-the-render-mode-of-the-entire-app)
* [Configure the Render Mode per Page](#configure-the-render-mode-per-page)
 
>.NET 8.0 introduces [new render modes for the Blazor components](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/components/render-modes?view=aspnetcore-8.0). At the time of writing, the default render mode is static. To enable the `TelerikRootComponent`, change it to interactive.
```

> * [Configure the render mode of the whole app](#configure-the-render-mode-of-the-whole-app)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Configure the render mode of the whole app](#configure-the-render-mode-of-the-entire-app)
```

* [Configure the render mode per page](#configure-the-render-mode-per-page)

> #### Configure the render mode of the whole app

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Configure the Render Mode of the Entire App
```

> Set the render mode for the whole app as suggested in the [Blazor documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/components/render-modes?view=aspnetcore-8.0#set-the-render-mode-for-the-entire-app). This will spare the need to set the render mode in every page and component.

Reviewer 2: This is one of two alternative options, so make sure that the language you use implies that.
```suggestion
You can set the render mode for the entire app as suggested in the [Blazor documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/components/render-modes?view=aspnetcore-8.0#set-the-render-mode-for-the-entire-app). This will spare the need to set the render mode in every page and component.
```

</div>
````
````NavMenu.razor
<div class="top-row ps-3 navbar navbar-dark">
    <div class="container-fluid">
        <a class="navbar-brand" href="">MyBlazorWeb</a>
    </div>
</div>

<input type="checkbox" title="Navigation menu" class="navbar-toggler" />

<div class="nav-scrollable" onclick="document.querySelector('.navbar-toggler').click()">
    <nav class="flex-column">
        <div class="nav-item px-3">
            <NavLink class="nav-link" href="" Match="NavLinkMatch.All">
                <span class="bi bi-house-door-fill" aria-hidden="true"></span> Home
            </NavLink>
        </div>

        <div class="nav-item px-3">
            <NavLink class="nav-link" href="counter">
                <span class="bi bi-plus-square-fill" aria-hidden="true"></span> Counter
            </NavLink>
        </div>

        <div class="nav-item px-3">
            <NavLink class="nav-link" href="weather">
                <span class="bi bi-list-nested" aria-hidden="true"></span> Weather
            </NavLink>
        </div>
    </nav>
</div>
````
````Home.razor
@page "/"

@rendermode RenderMode.InteractiveServer
  
@* Telerik UI for Blazor components here *@

````

> #### Configure the render mode per page

Reviewer 2: Use title case.

> Set interactive render mode for specific pages and components. This is useful if you want to have different render modes in the app. In this case, make sure that the `TelerikRootComponent` is placed in a component hierarchy that has interactive render mode. See the example below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set interactive render mode for specific pages and components. This is useful if you want to have different render modes in the app. In this case, make sure that the `TelerikRootComponent` is part of a component hierarchy that has interactive render mode. See the example below:
```

> Set interactive render mode for specific pages and components. This is useful if you want to have different render modes in the app. In this case, make sure that the `TelerikRootComponent` is placed in a component hierarchy that has interactive render mode. See the example below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As an alternative to setting the render mode for the entire app, you can set it only for specific pages and components. This is useful if you want to have different render modes in the app. In this case, make sure that the `TelerikRootComponent` is placed in a component hierarchy that has interactive render mode. See the example below:
```

<div class="skip-repl"></div>

> ````MainLayout.razor

Reviewer: We should mention and/or link here why the MainLayout is empty (the TelerikRootComponent must wrap all the content in the viewport, etc.)

@inherits LayoutComponentBase

@implements IDisposable

@Body

@code {
    protected override Task OnInitializedAsync()
    {
        return base.OnInitializedAsync();
    }

    public void Dispose()
    {
    }
}
````
````TelerikLayout.razor
@rendermode RenderMode.InteractiveServer

<TelerikRootComponent>

    <div class="page">
        <div class="sidebar">
            <NavMenu />
        </div>

        <main>
            <div class="top-row px-4">
                <a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/" target="_blank">About</a>
            </div>

            <article class="content px-4">
                @ChildContent
            </article>
        </main>
    </div>

    <div id="blazor-error-ui">
        An unhandled error has occurred.
        <a href="" class="reload">Reload</a>
        <a class="dismiss">🗙</a>
    </div>

</TelerikRootComponent>

@code{
    [Parameter]
    public RenderFragment ChildContent {get;set;}
}
````

> ````NavMenu.razor

Reviewer: If there are no changes in NavMenu, we can skip it, otherwise one will dig to see what's different.

<div class="top-row ps-3 navbar navbar-dark">
    <div class="container-fluid">
        <a class="navbar-brand" href="">MyBlazorWeb</a>
    </div>
</div>

<input type="checkbox" title="Navigation menu" class="navbar-toggler" />

<div class="nav-scrollable" onclick="document.querySelector('.navbar-toggler').click()">
    <nav class="flex-column">
        <div class="nav-item px-3">
            <NavLink class="nav-link" href="" Match="NavLinkMatch.All">
                <span class="bi bi-house-door-fill" aria-hidden="true"></span> Home
            </NavLink>
        </div>

        <div class="nav-item px-3">
            <NavLink class="nav-link" href="counter">
                <span class="bi bi-plus-square-fill" aria-hidden="true"></span> Counter
            </NavLink>
        </div>

        <div class="nav-item px-3">
            <NavLink class="nav-link" href="weather">
                <span class="bi bi-list-nested" aria-hidden="true"></span> Weather
            </NavLink>
        </div>
    </nav>
</div>
````
````Home.razor
@page "/"

@rendermode RenderMode.InteractiveServer

<TelerikLayout>
  
    @* Telerik UI for Blazor components here *@

</TelerikLayout>
````

> ###  4.4. Register the Telerik Blazor Service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 4.4. Register the Telerik Blazor Service
```

> ###  4.4. Register the Telerik Blazor Service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
###  4.5. Register the Telerik Blazor Service
```

Reviewer 2: If you decide to keep the configuration of the render mode under 4.3. then this step remains 4.4.
